All right, so now it's time for us to get started and putting together the application, but most importantly,
we're going to add the we're going to start small and adding the things that we need.
All right.
So I went ahead and created a new project.
A dot reader can name whatever we want.
And so we have it's all set up, and now it's time for us to get started.
So what I'm going to do first, of course, is we know that we will need a few things.
But the main thing is that we need Firebase.
So Firebase is a backend that allows us to create databases, but most importantly, allows us to scale
our app quickly and easily.
Now what do we need to do is to go to Firebase, Stockholm or Firebase or Google that comes if you type
in, you should have a Google account in order for this to work.
I'm assuming you do.
If not, you have to create an account and then you should be able to go to a firebase that come Firebase
at Google that is dot com with S. And I'm already logged in.
That's why you have my picture there.
And why do we need to do from here or just go to console?
You'll see that we have here your Firebase project.
See if this is the first time you probably won't have any of these.
Which is fine in this case.
I do have a few projects, so that's why they are there.
So what do we need to do is say add project.
So but in this case here, I'm just going to say, get a reader like this to name our app.
OK, I say continue, and it's going to ask us to, of course, add Google Analytics for the Firebase
Project.
I don't want any of this.
I'm just going to not add any of those sorts of say, create and now is creating the chat.
A reader project Firebase projects so may take a few seconds.
You can see that a reader is done.
Your new project is ready.
Go ahead and click there, and it should be taken to this screen here.
The beauty about having a Firebase project is that you can include different platforms.
You have Apple, iOS, Android have web, we have unity and so forth.
So this is really good because you could have an app that is an iOS app, Android and web, but the
data is still the same right to database.
The back end is the same, so you can leverage the same database.
OK, so what do we need to do here?
Let's go ahead and click Android.
As such, now we need to add a few things here in our registered app here.
So notice it says we need to add the Android package name.
If you click there, it's going to say your package name is generally the application ID in your app
level build.gradle.
Let's go to our project.
Go to app level.
Build that Gradle this one so you can see application and this is mine now for you.
It's going to be something different.
Right?
So go to the second below Gradle.
So the one that says module and that app like that and then go to default or find where application
it is.
So you want to copy that and we're going to add that has to be exactly that.
OK, so go and find yours and the app nickname here.
This is optional.
Essentially, it's going to be the nickname we're going to see in the console.
I'm going to say a reader, git, a reader, android and then the debug signing certificate.
We don't need to worry about that.
We're going to go ahead and just register the app.
All right.
So now we need to download the config file.
He says Google services that JSON and then wants to be download here.
We need to move that into our app module root directory.
OK, let's go ahead and click here to download.
And you can see here it has even an image to show us where we supposed to add.
So it has to be at our root folder in our Android app.
So let's go ahead and open this finder.
Go to our project.
All right.
So what I'm going to do next is I'm going to change the view of our project here.
I'm going to click there.
I want to see the project so I can have access to all the files and so forth so I can see there is the
app.
So I'm going to add it to this root folder here, making sure it's going to be exactly like this.
So you see, we have the source and we have the pro guide rules, so it's going to be at the same level
as provide rules there.
So I have it on my desktop and when it gets added there, I'm going to say refactor and everything.
Sure.
This is for my get.
That's fine.
And voila, there it is.
OK.
Just make sure it is correct.
Yes.
Has to be there.
So this is your Google service.
I decide you should keep it to yourself because this contains all of the information needed for the
app, the authorizations and so forth.
So don't share that with anyone.
OK, so back to our configuration, I'm going to say next.
All right.
So now saying that we need to make some changes in our Gradle?
So what do we need to do here?
First of all, this has to be the project level build that Gradle, which means.
Let's change this back to Android, so we can just see the files that we need.
This is going to be the project level six project there to click.
Let's go ahead and take a look.
It has to be.
Let's check that we have Google.
Is that right?
We have Google.
That's very good.
And now Independency says, we have to add this, so I'm going to just copy this such.
And add at the bottom, there looks like everything is good and you can see sometimes there are some
differences the way things are laid out in our cradle.
But the idea is still the same.
We have repositories.
Make sure that, you know, build script.
Will script repositories has all of that, so we should be good.
We just had to have that Google repository called there while I'm here.
And go ahead and change this to the newer version because it's asking.
And while I'm here, he also, I'm going to change this to four, because that's the latest compose
version.
OK?
All right, let's continue.
And now in our app level bill that Gradle assisted app level, we need to add a few things.
So it says, first of all, apply.
We're going to add this line.
I'm going to copy this.
You can do that.
So this let's go back now.
See here, this is the app build.gradle.
The top here, let's go ahead and add apply plug in in this case now because there have been some changes.
What we need to do, actually, I can remove all of this and you can see just ID like this that works
as well.
OK, and then we're going to add this dependency here.
I'm going to copy and go down to dependencies.
So I would start off somewhere here, let's say Firebase Store.
So I know and pacing there, they're very good.
And now we're going to go ahead and says, here they want to sync our project.
All right.
Let's go ahead and sync.
After a few moments, you see that the Gradle has updated and everything should be good.
Now they have a couple of dependencies for Firebase authentication and Cloud First Order.
I'm going to add here.
So all of that you can actually go this just say next year.
So you can actually check out the documentation.
You can also explore the sample.
Firebase app was right click and open this link.
We're going to click this Android, and there's this very nice gentleman who walks you through everything,
which is really nice.
But if you scroll down, you'll see exactly what you've done, right?
All the dependencies we had to add.
And then at the bottom, you will see that we have codling Katie X for Android.
So usually there is Java on go to Kotlin and you can see that we've added this dependency to fire boom.
I firebase boom.
And we don't need this dependency because we're not using we're not using Google Analytics, but it
says here declares dependency for any other desired Firebase products.
And so say, for example, they declare the dependencies for Firebase authentication and cloud first,
or which is exactly what we want.
So that's where I got this from.
So just copy all of that as I did and added there.
So I can also add here Firebase
and Fire Store.
OK, so once again, let's go ahead and sync our project here.
OK, it looks like everything went well.
OK, so now how do I know that this is actually working, that I have everything set up with Firebase?
Well, one of things you can do is actually just run this app as it is right now, and let's go to our
Logcat and for debugging, we can look for Firebase a minute.
Change this to a verbose.
Still running looks like I have a few problems here.
That's not a problem because these are versioning issues, so says the version one that 04 for composed
compiler requires Kotlin one five through one.
So this is something we need to do.
Remember, all of these may change depending on when you're watching this video, because these versions
change constantly.
OK, so whatever version they are telling us to change here, we need to add that this is happening
because if we go back to our build that app, I change the actually build that Gradle.
This is the project level.
I change to one zero four.
That means then here for our plug in, I need to change to what they ask, which is one point five thirty
one like this?
OK.
So go ahead and sink once again.
Looks like the sinking went well.
It looks like device and lock initializing all purpose APIs for app default.
That's good.
Let's go ahead and actually run now and hopefully see something that will tell us that this is actually
initialized and all is good.
All right.
You should see something like this.
If you ran the your app, hello, android.
But most importantly, we should see here and verbose.
It would have been Firebase to search for.
It concedes as Firebase initialization successful.
So we know now that everything is set up for us to start looking at working with Firebase.
All right, congratulations.
Make sure you go through this process so that you have everything set up.
Remember that these versions may be different, but each time you watch this video, so don't get hung
up on these versions of all of these dependencies, OK?
So what's important is that you understand how to set things up and that if you need to change those
versions, you must to change.
You must change those versions and make sure that if you change certain versions of certain dependencies,
you will probably most likely have to change the other dependencies that remained on that dependency
fragmented sense.
So but the beauty is that the build.gradle Gradle here will always tell us exactly which things or which
dependencies need to be need to be updated.
Great.
So we know that the Firebase initialization is successful.
In fact, if you go back to our app here, say Continue.
Can see we have our app.
There we go.
This is the app that we just created.
That's my app.
In this case, you should have a different name and so forth, but it's there so we can now do all sort
of things right.
We can create authentication and faster and images in so many services that we can use now.
One thing I would like to point out is that inside of our Android setup with Firebase here, where we
went and got our Kotlin dependencies for off in first store, if you scroll down, continue, scroll
down.
You will see that we have all the available libraries here, Java, Android, but we want to cut lean
T.X.
Android, right?
So far, based here has a lot of different services this AdMob for ads.
So this this is this would be the service you would add all the dependency you would add.
There's analytics, as you saw before.
We can add that all of these kinds that you can add all of these different services for Firebase cloud
storage, remote and so many, so many, so many others, right?
So this is a good reference for you to come.
And most importantly, also you can come and see the versions that are up to date.